# Jahan/Rosling Response 
## Data 150
### Suditi Shyamsunder 

Selim Jahan introduces the idea that for far too long the paradigm of economic development has dominated the idea of human development. Jahan states that while income is critical it is not an end, and that human development is about expanding the richness of life, not the richness of the economy within which human beings live. What are some of the targetted issues that Jahan examples as requiring focus throughout the world? Elaborate further on Jahan’s definition of human development. What are the different measures incorporated into the Human Development Index that serve to capture the breadth and focus of each countries’ average achievement?

Hans Rosling states that “we underestimate the tremendous social change that often precedes economic change” and proceeds to provide several examples. What were some of the examples Rosling presented where health appeared to be a precursor to wealth? What was Rosling’s warning regarding the dangers of using averages when describing development?

health knowledge, standard of living 

While in the past we have often measured the relative success of the populations and countries around the world by their GDP and economic success, the Human Development Index (HDI) urges society to shift their view on what is truly important and crucial for a successful society. The HDI is a measure of countries that puts people first. Unfortunately growth and economic success do not always correlate with human happiness and comfort, which is why this idea of focusing on the people is so revolutionary. Throughout the world, we need to focus more on maintaining people's health and ensuring access to proper medical care as well as educating populations of people in need of the liberation that comes with knowledge. Rather than focusing on a booming economy, the HDI focuses on health, standard of living, and education which are far more important when your lens is directed at human life rather than industry. Jahan's definition of human development is focused on improving quality of life throughout the world. This does not necessarily correlate with taller buildings or larger malls, but instead is focused on improving life expectancy and lifting those in need out of poverty. I found Rosling's TED Talk particularly interesting. I was intrigued by his goal of making data free and available to the public. I also found it interesting when he presented countries like China who became more prosperous and influential when they promoted their health system and bettered the lives of their people. This further connects to the idea Jahan discussed that human devlopment ought to be measured based on the person, and as health increases, this example shows that positive economic impacts can also occur. This shows that a focus on the person doesn't have to be separate from the older traditional definition of development. The most intriguing thing from his talk was when he showed the graphs with different countries of different sized circles relating to population. After evaluating those graphs, he broke some of the countries apart to show how different parts of the same country can be in terms of human devleopment. He proved that using one method to help one country is not likely to be super effective because within one country there is many different levels of prosperity and human health.  
